input/docs/handbook/view-models/boilerplate-code.md, before:

If you are tired of writing boilerplate code for property change notifications, you can try either <a href="https://github.com/Fody/PropertyChanged">PropertyChanged.Fody</a> or <a href="https://www.nuget.org/packages/ReactiveUI.Fody/">ReactiveUI.Fody</a>. These libraries are both based on <a href="https://github.com/Fody/">Fody</a> - an extensible tool for weaving .NET assemblies, and they'll inject `INotifyPropertyChanged` code into properties at compile time for you. We recommend using <a href="https://www.nuget.org/packages/ReactiveUI.Fody/">ReactiveUI.Fody</a> package that also handles `ObservableAsProperyHelper` properties.

# Read-write properties
Typically properties are declared like this:

```cs
private string name;
public string Name 
{
    get => name;
    set => this.RaiseAndSetIfChanged(ref name, value);
}
```

With [ReactiveUI.Fody](https://www.nuget.org/packages/ReactiveUI.Fody/), you don't have to write boilerplate code for getters and setters of read-write properties — the package will do it automagically for you at compile time. All you have to do is annotate the property with the `[Reactive]` attribute, as shown below.

```cs
[Reactive]
public string Name { get; set; }
```

> **Note** `ReactiveUI.Fody` currently doesn't support inline auto property initializers. Don't attempt to write code like `public string Name { get; set; } = "Name";`, this won't work as you expect and will likely throw a very weird exception. To workaround this limitation, move your property initialization code to the constructor of your view model class. We know about this limitation and [have a tracking issue for this](https://github.com/reactiveui/ReactiveUI/issues/2416).

# ObservableAsPropertyHelper properties

Similarly, to declare output properties, the code looks like this:

```cs
ObservableAsPropertyHelper<string> firstName;
public string FirstName => firstName.Value;
```

Then the helper is initialized with a call to `ToProperty`:

```cs
// firstNameObservable is IObservable<string>
firstName = firstNameObservable
  .ToProperty(this, x => x.FirstName);
```

With ReactiveUI.Fody, you can simply declare a read-only property using the `[ObservableAsProperty]` attribute, using either option of the two options shown below. One option is to annotate the getter of the property:

```cs
public string FirstName { [ObservableAsProperty] get; }
```

Another option is to annotate the property as a whole:

```cs
[ObservableAsProperty]
public string FirstName { get; }
```
    
The field will be generated and the property implemented at compile time. Because there is no field for you to pass to `.ToProperty`, you should use the `.ToPropertyEx` extension method provided by this library:

```cs
// firstNameObservable is IObservable<string>
firstNameObservable.ToPropertyEx(this, x => x.FirstName);
```

This extension will assign the auto-generated field for you rather than relying on the `out` parameter.

> **Note** The generated getter for property of type `T` annotated with the `[ObservableAsProperty]` attribute will return `default(T)` in case if the property isn't yet initialized via a call to `ToPropertyEx`. To be more specific, the generated getter code looks somewhat like `T PropertyName => oaph?.Value ?? default(T);`, where `oaph` is a field of type `ObservableAsProperty<T>` which is generated by the compiler.

Commit message:

🦜 ReactiveUI.Fody property initializers limitation only applies to generic types (#557)
- Previous description makes it seem like non-generic types are impacted as well, which isn't true. This change clarifies the situation.
- ref reactiveui/ReactiveUI#2416

input/docs/handbook/view-models/boilerplate-code.md, after:

If you are tired of writing boilerplate code for property change notifications, you can try either <a href="https://github.com/Fody/PropertyChanged">PropertyChanged.Fody</a> or <a href="https://www.nuget.org/packages/ReactiveUI.Fody/">ReactiveUI.Fody</a>. These libraries are both based on <a href="https://github.com/Fody/">Fody</a> - an extensible tool for weaving .NET assemblies, and they'll inject `INotifyPropertyChanged` code into properties at compile time for you. We recommend using <a href="https://www.nuget.org/packages/ReactiveUI.Fody/">ReactiveUI.Fody</a> package that also handles `ObservableAsProperyHelper` properties.

# Read-write properties
Typically properties are declared like this:

```cs
private string name;
public string Name 
{
    get => name;
    set => this.RaiseAndSetIfChanged(ref name, value);
}
```

With [ReactiveUI.Fody](https://www.nuget.org/packages/ReactiveUI.Fody/), you don't have to write boilerplate code for getters and setters of read-write properties — the package will do it automagically for you at compile time. All you have to do is annotate the property with the `[Reactive]` attribute, as shown below.

```cs
[Reactive]
public string Name { get; set; }
```

> **Note** `ReactiveUI.Fody` currently doesn't support inline auto property initializers in generic types. It works fine with non-generic types. But if you are working on a generic type, don't attempt to write code like `public string Name { get; set; } = "Name";`, this won't work as you might expect and will likely throw a very weird exception. To workaround this limitation, move your property initialization code to the constructor of your view model class. We know about this limitation and [have a tracking issue for this](https://github.com/reactiveui/ReactiveUI/issues/2416).

# ObservableAsPropertyHelper properties

Similarly, to declare output properties, the code looks like this:

```cs
ObservableAsPropertyHelper<string> firstName;
public string FirstName => firstName.Value;
```

Then the helper is initialized with a call to `ToProperty`:

```cs
// firstNameObservable is IObservable<string>
firstName = firstNameObservable
  .ToProperty(this, x => x.FirstName);
```

With ReactiveUI.Fody, you can simply declare a read-only property using the `[ObservableAsProperty]` attribute, using either option of the two options shown below. One option is to annotate the getter of the property:

```cs
public string FirstName { [ObservableAsProperty] get; }
```

Another option is to annotate the property as a whole:

```cs
[ObservableAsProperty]
public string FirstName { get; }
```
    
The field will be generated and the property implemented at compile time. Because there is no field for you to pass to `.ToProperty`, you should use the `.ToPropertyEx` extension method provided by this library:

```cs
// firstNameObservable is IObservable<string>
firstNameObservable.ToPropertyEx(this, x => x.FirstName);
```

This extension will assign the auto-generated field for you rather than relying on the `out` parameter.

> **Note** The generated getter for property of type `T` annotated with the `[ObservableAsProperty]` attribute will return `default(T)` in case if the property isn't yet initialized via a call to `ToPropertyEx`. To be more specific, the generated getter code looks somewhat like `T PropertyName => oaph?.Value ?? default(T);`, where `oaph` is a field of type `ObservableAsProperty<T>` which is generated by the compiler.
