input/docs/resources/videos.md, before:

Order: 10
---

# 2017

## There is a better way
There is a better way - Geoffrey Huntley at NDC Sydney
<iframe class="embedded-video" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/4inY7TFEVT0" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## The Xamarin Show: Episode 17
ReactiveUI with Michael Stonis

<iframe  class="embedded-video" src="https://channel9.msdn.com/Shows/XamarinShow/The-Xamarin-Show-17-ReactiveUI-with-Michael-Stonis/player" allowFullScreen frameBorder="0"></iframe>

# 2016

## ReactiveUI with Xamarin - Xamarin University Guest Lecture

Michael Stonis & Geoffrey Huntley at Xamarin University

<iframe class="embedded-video" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/vydDJ9CaIug?list=PLM9jdoijSdhgiRR9Bd8KkLggD0LZK5K3C" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## Why You Should Be Building Better Mobile Apps with Reactive Programming 

Michael Stonis at Xamarin Evolve 2016
<iframe class="embedded-video" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/DYEbUF4xs1Q" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## Reactive Programming, changing the world at Netflix, Microsoft, Slack and beyond!

Matthew Podwysocki at AngularConf
<iframe class="embedded-video" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/yEeDbHvg1vQ" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

# 2015

## Reactive UI - It's pretty neat
By Brendan Forster

<iframe class="embedded-video" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/HPyKHxy7X0w" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

# 2014

## Awaiting for Rx: A Play in Four Acts

Paul Betts at Xamarin Evolve 2014
<iframe class="embedded-video" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/5DZ8nC0ENdg?list=PLM9jdoijSdhgiRR9Bd8KkLggD0LZK5K3C" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## FRP In Practice: Taking a look at Reactive[UI/Cocoa]

Paul Betts at Strange Loop
<iframe class="embedded-video" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/1XNATGjqM6U?list=PLM9jdoijSdhgiRR9Bd8KkLggD0LZK5K3C" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

# 2012

## Reactive Extensions and ReactiveUI: Paul Betts at QCon

https://www.infoq.com/presentations/Reactive-Extensions-and-ReactiveUI

Commit message:

added lifting app state video

input/docs/resources/videos.md, after:

Order: 10
---

# 2018

## Lifting App State with Geoffrey Huntley | The Xamarin Show
This week, James is joined by friend of the show and Microsoft MVP Geoffrey Huntley to discuss lifting app state with Reactive Extensions (RX). Geoffrey gives a full overview of RX and Reactive UI and how it can help developers compose their application logic easier. He walks through full concepts and how to convert some MVVM code over.

<iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/3HwEytvngXk" frameborder="0" allow="autoplay; encrypted-media" allowfullscreen></iframe>

# 2017

## There is a better way
There is a better way - Geoffrey Huntley at NDC Sydney
<iframe class="embedded-video" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/4inY7TFEVT0" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## The Xamarin Show: Episode 17
ReactiveUI with Michael Stonis

<iframe  class="embedded-video" src="https://channel9.msdn.com/Shows/XamarinShow/The-Xamarin-Show-17-ReactiveUI-with-Michael-Stonis/player" allowFullScreen frameBorder="0"></iframe>

# 2016

## ReactiveUI with Xamarin - Xamarin University Guest Lecture

Michael Stonis & Geoffrey Huntley at Xamarin University

<iframe class="embedded-video" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/vydDJ9CaIug?list=PLM9jdoijSdhgiRR9Bd8KkLggD0LZK5K3C" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## Why You Should Be Building Better Mobile Apps with Reactive Programming 

Michael Stonis at Xamarin Evolve 2016
<iframe class="embedded-video" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/DYEbUF4xs1Q" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## Reactive Programming, changing the world at Netflix, Microsoft, Slack and beyond!

Matthew Podwysocki at AngularConf
<iframe class="embedded-video" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/yEeDbHvg1vQ" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

# 2015

## Reactive UI - It's pretty neat
By Brendan Forster

<iframe class="embedded-video" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/HPyKHxy7X0w" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

# 2014

## Awaiting for Rx: A Play in Four Acts

Paul Betts at Xamarin Evolve 2014
<iframe class="embedded-video" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/5DZ8nC0ENdg?list=PLM9jdoijSdhgiRR9Bd8KkLggD0LZK5K3C" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## FRP In Practice: Taking a look at Reactive[UI/Cocoa]

Paul Betts at Strange Loop
<iframe class="embedded-video" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/1XNATGjqM6U?list=PLM9jdoijSdhgiRR9Bd8KkLggD0LZK5K3C" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

# 2012

## Reactive Extensions and ReactiveUI: Paul Betts at QCon

https://www.infoq.com/presentations/Reactive-Extensions-and-ReactiveUI
