input/docs/guidelines/platform/blazor.md, before:

Title: Blazor
---

### Project

Ensure that you install `ReactiveUI.Blazor` into your application.

### ViewModel

Your ViewModel should inherit from `ReactiveObject`

- [ReactiveObject](https://reactiveui.net/api/reactiveui/reactiveobject/)

Use `IActivatableViewModel` and `WhenActivated` for lifecycle

- [IActivatableViewModel](https://reactiveui.net/api/reactiveui/IActivatableViewModel/)
- [When Activated](https://reactiveui.net/docs/handbook/when-activated/)

Keep references to your subscriptions

- [Reactive programming#lifecycle](https://reactiveui.net/docs/reactive-programming/#lifecycle)

Use disposables to manage lifetime, scope and resources:

- [Reactive programming#disposables](https://reactiveui.net/docs/reactive-programming/#disposables)

### View

Your Page (View) should inherit from

- `[ReactiveComponentBase<T>](https://www.reactiveui.net/api/reactiveui.blazor/reactivecomponentbase_1/)`: If you want to instantiate your ViewModel corresponding to the View, then set the ViewModel property in the Page's code behind.  
- `[ReactiveInjectableComponentBase<T>](https://www.reactiveui.net/api/reactiveui.blazor/reactiveinjectablecomponentbase_1/)`: If you want that your corresponding ViewModel should be injected by the dependency injection container.
- `[ReactiveLayoutComponentBase](https://www.reactiveui.net/api/reactiveui.blazor/reactivelayoutcomponentbase_1/)`:


Use your normal Blazor concepts that you would usually use in Blazor development. There's also some extension methods which will make your life easier

Commit message:

add blazor to Release Packages section, change the BlazDoc link to installl and put the old blog link to the platform specific page

input/docs/guidelines/platform/blazor.md, after:

Title: Blazor
---

### Project

Ensure that you install `ReactiveUI.Blazor` into your application.

### ViewModel

Your ViewModel should inherit from `ReactiveObject`

- [ReactiveObject](https://reactiveui.net/api/reactiveui/reactiveobject/)

Use `IActivatableViewModel` and `WhenActivated` for lifecycle

- [IActivatableViewModel](https://reactiveui.net/api/reactiveui/IActivatableViewModel/)
- [When Activated](https://reactiveui.net/docs/handbook/when-activated/)

Keep references to your subscriptions

- [Reactive programming#lifecycle](https://reactiveui.net/docs/reactive-programming/#lifecycle)

Use disposables to manage lifetime, scope and resources:

- [Reactive programming#disposables](https://reactiveui.net/docs/reactive-programming/#disposables)

### View

Your Page (View) should inherit from

- [ReactiveComponentBase<T>](https://www.reactiveui.net/api/reactiveui.blazor/reactivecomponentbase_1/): If you want to instantiate your ViewModel corresponding to the View, then set the ViewModel property in the Page's code behind.  
- [ReactiveInjectableComponentBase<T>](https://www.reactiveui.net/api/reactiveui.blazor/reactiveinjectablecomponentbase_1/): If you want that your corresponding ViewModel should be injected by the dependency injection container.
- [ReactiveLayoutComponentBase](https://www.reactiveui.net/api/reactiveui.blazor/reactivelayoutcomponentbase_1/):


Use your normal Blazor concepts that you would usually use in Blazor development. There's also some extension methods which will make your life easier

Useful links
- [ReactiveUI On The Web with Blazor](https://www.reactiveui.net/blog/2020/07/article-blazor-compelling-example)
