# Commands

`ReactiveCommand` is a Reactive Extensions and asynchronous aware implementation of the [`ICommand`](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/system.windows.input.icommand.aspx) interface.

`ICommand` is often used in the [MVVM design pattern](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/framework/wpf/advanced/commanding-overview) to allow the View to trigger business logic defined in the ViewModel. This allows for easier maintenance, unit testing, and the ability to reuse ViewModels across different UI frameworks. Examples of where a View might invoke a command include clicking a *Save* menu item, tapping a phone icon, or stretching an image. In these cases, the ViewModel will then invoke the business logic of saving outstanding changes, performing a phone call, or zooming into an image.

`ReactiveCommand` adds the concept of Input and Output generic types. The Input is often passed in by the View, and the Output is the result of executing the command. ReactiveCommand's are `IObservable<TOutput>` which can be used like any other IObservable. For example, since the `ReactiveCommand` is `IObservable<TOutput>` you can `Subscribe()` to it like any other observable, and add the output to a List on your view model. The `Unit` type is a functional programming construct analogous to void and can be used in cases where you don't care about either the input and/or output value.

`ReactiveCommand` has full support for asynchronous logic and will block re-execution while executing. `ReactiveCommand` guarantees the result of events are delivered to the provided `IScheduler` (which defaults to the main thread scheduler). The executing logic thread safety is the user's responsibility but any result from the logic is guaranteed to arrive on the specified `IScheduler`.

A `ReactiveCommand` is created using static factory methods which allows you to create command logic that executes either synchronously or asynchronously. The following are the different static factory methods:

* `CreateFromTask()` - Executes a C# [Task Parallel Library (TPL)](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/standard/parallel-programming/task-based-asynchronous-programming) Task. This allows use also of the C# [async/await](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/csharp/language-reference/keywords/async) operators.
* `CreateFromObservable()` - Execute the logic using an `IObservable`.
* `Create()` - Execute a synchronous Func or Action.

A `ReactiveCommand` may or may not be executable in a given situation. For example, the command backing the *Save* menu item might be unavailable if there are no unsaved changes. We pass into the `ReactiveCommand` an `IObservable<bool>` of when the ReactiveCommand should be allowed to be executed. The `ReactiveCommand` uses an IObservable eventing system to determine if execution should be allowed which differs from other frameworks where you might have the command continuous poll if execution is allowed. The ReactiveCommand approach has some performance advantages in that the value is cached between the can execute observable being fired. You commonly will create your can execute observable using the [`WhenAnyValue` functions](../when-any/index.md) provided by the ReactiveUI framework. Parameters, unlike in other frameworks, are typically not used in the canExecute conditions, instead, binding View properties to ViewModel properties and then using the WhenAnyValue() is far more common.

`ReactiveCommand` are fully integrated into the Reactive Extensions framework. `ReactiveCommand` provides an IsExecuting property (also of type `IObservable<bool>`) which tells you whether the command is currently executing.  This is often useful if you want to trigger activity animations or you want to prevent other commands from executing while the command is executing.

`ReactiveCommand` can be connected to the View by either using XAML binding on supported platforms, or using the inbuilt [ReactiveUI binding](../data-binding/index.md) method `BindCommand`. Use of BindCommand is preferred but not required where XAML binding is supported.

`ReactiveCommand` implements the `ICommand` for UI framework compatibility and backwards compatibility only. It is recommended you don't use the `ICommand` interface directly in your code. `ReactiveCommand` is explicitly derived from the `ICommand` interface to avoid users accidentally calling the non-reactive style methods. The `ICommand` methods do not lend well to long-running and also asynchronous commands, such as those that perform I/O operations. The `ICommand` also focuses on an imperative style of execution over the reactive style.`ReactiveCommand` provides methods and observable properties that are the equivalent of the `ICommand` interface. `Execute()` provides an Observable which you can `Subscribe()` to execute the logic of the `ReactiveCommand` and `CanExecute` is also exposed through a read-only property. Additionally `ReactiveCommand` provides the `IsExecuting` observable which is functionally not provided by the `ICommand` interface.
