input/docs/roadmap/index.md, before:

Title: Roadmap
---

Want to see something done sooner? Speak with one of the maintainers and ask how you can help as the easiest way to influence the direction or have a feature implemented earlier is to make significant, high-quality contributions and if you so desire, become a project maintainer.

# Now
- Host virtual meetups on a regular interval.
- Improve quality of website documentation.
- Reference sample applications for each platform
- [Add ReactiveUI to Microsoft Windows Template Studio](https://github.com/reactiveui/ReactiveUI/issues/1516)
- Global roadshow on reactive programming, [the maintainers will present at your usergroup](https://reactiveui.net/meetup/co-host/).
- Improve contributor experience (pull-request reviews, issue triage, processes documented, work with visuals studio for mac product team and help them implement the features that are missing from their product)
- Encourage users and contributors to pull-request the website docs / lift high quality discussions from Slack and turn them into documentation
- Ship multiple releases without involvement of the core maintainers / reduce project bus factor
- Grow +10 project maintainers by 1st January 2019


# Next
- Increase testing coverage, increase amount of platforms that are tested & implement daily builds on real physical devices on Xamarin Test cloud.
- [Benchmark everything, do a release focused on measuring allocations and reducing them](https://github.com/reactiveui/ReactiveUI/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Aperformance)
- [Add memory leak tests to assert even more correctness](https://github.com/reactiveui/ReactiveUI/issues/1486)
- [Add the tizen30 platform to reactiveui](https://github.com/reactiveui/ReactiveUI/pull/1387)

Commit message:

Result from the weekend work. (#283)
* - Added Upgrade guide
- Minor cleanups
- Moved compiling section out into the contributor section
- Updated the SourceLink documentation.

* Expand on common mistakes when converting from DynamicData

* Fixing up tone and mechanics

* further work

input/docs/roadmap/index.md, after:

Title: Roadmap
---

Want to see something done sooner? Speak with one of the maintainers and ask how you can help as the easiest way to influence the direction or have a feature implemented earlier is to make significant, high-quality contributions and if you so desire, become a project maintainer.

# Now
- Improve quality of website documentation.
- Reference sample applications for each platform
- [Add ReactiveUI to Microsoft Windows Template Studio](https://github.com/reactiveui/ReactiveUI/issues/1516)
- Improve contributor experience (pull-request reviews, issue triage, processes documented, work with visuals studio for mac product team and help them implement the features that are missing from their product)
- Encourage users and contributors to pull-request the website docs / lift high quality discussions from Slack and turn them into documentation
- Increase testing coverage, increase amount of platforms that are tested & implement daily builds on real physical devices on Azure DevOps.
- Higher transparency into tasks using GitHub projects.
- Cleanup our Github issue labels. Make it obvious to new contributors what tasks are friendly to them.
- Automate Tweeting our core product release notifications.

# Next
- Release version 10, with .NET Core 3 support (with WPF/Winforms), and also removing ReactiveList support.
- Get our bug count down to 0. Focusing on OpenCollective and regular contributors first.
- Get our feature request down to 0. Focusing on OpenCollective and regular contributors first.
- Investigate if we should be using Roslyn compile hooks or Fody for auto-property/OAPH functionality.
- Investigate replacing whenAny family with a Fody based approach.
- [Benchmark everything, do a release focused on measuring allocations and reducing them](https://github.com/reactiveui/ReactiveUI/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Aperformance)
